WI #643: Specification Change Guidelines (#684)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/metadata/schema/column_definition/deprecated.md

> # Deprecated

Reviewer: This only covers deprecated or not. What about "Status" to cover other statuses that we may decide to add in the future? Maybe:
- `New` for columns that are new in this version
- `Active` for existing columns from the previous version
- `Deprecated` for columns that will be removed in the future
- `Removed` for columns that are no longer in this version (to be very explicit, given this is metadata)

Author: This turns metadata to a transactional record which fundamentally shifts the applicability of the schema definition. More substantial changes would have to be added to facilitate this.

Author: As per discussion in TF-2 we are resolving but noting for future releases.

The deprecation status of any column [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset).

> Deprecated MUST be provided in the FOCUS Metadata schema when a column is going to be removed in a future delivered schema definition. DataType MUST be of type Boolean and MUST NOT contain null values. The value of deprecated should only be true if the column is deprecated. Providers can choose to always provide the deprecation key or elect to only include it when the deprecation status of a column is "true". Deprecation must true when the provider is going to remove a column at a future date or the column has been identified for deprecation for the FOCUS version identified in the schema definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deprecated MUST be provided in the FOCUS Metadata schema when a column will be removed in a future delivered schema definition. DataType MUST be of type Boolean and MUST NOT contain null values. The value of deprecated should only be "true" if the column is deprecated. Providers can choose to always provide the deprecation key or elect to only include it when the deprecation status of a column is "true". Deprecated must be "true" when the provider removes a column at a future date, or the column has been identified for deprecation for the FOCUS version identified in the schema definition.

```
